# TVR_project_2023
This is a repo containing all necessary files for the Final Year Project
## Abstract
This project demonstrated the clinical applicability of a non-invasive spinal cord interface that elicited sensory-motor responses. This interface was built on the tonic vibration reflex (TVR), in which sustained vibration over a target muscle induced a motor response via spinal reflex pathways. TVR has been exper- imentally validated as an effective mechanism for interaction with neural-muscular signals in the spinal loop; however, the variability of elicited responses between individuals and the need for strong stimu- lation amplitudes have hampered its clinical implementation. Therefore, this research employed three stages to resolve these issues. This project first determined all the physiological stimulation parameters to necessary elicit clear TVR responses, including stimulator settings, numbers and locations. These pa- rameters were configured to maintain optimal conditions for inducing TVR responses while minimising stimulation intrusiveness for patient comfort. This project then implemented a mathematical model based on individual data to approximate the level of TVR response that can be elicited by the initial stimulation conditions. In the last stage, novel bi-stimulator models were designed, tested, and compared to improve the robustness and effectiveness of the stimulator setup. The ”Dual Proximal” model was capable of 100% stimulation of the TVR response in trained volunteers, outperforming the commonly used ”Single Proximal” model in terms of activity level. Several mathematical frameworks were examined, and a re- duced error rate indicated greater robustness in this model. This novel evaluation has the potential to be used to evaluate the viability of TVR and other sensory feedback circuits as feedback interfaces.
## Content List
